# Who Am I?

My name is Burak *(/bu'ɾak/, pronounced "boo-RAHK")*. I am from Türkiye. In 2018, I received my undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from *İzmir Institute of Technology*, then in 2025 at the same university completed my master's degree with a thesis titled *Design of CNT/Fiber Reinforced Laminates for Minimum Weight*. Academically, I am interested in computational mechanics, numerical analysis, and optimization for mechanical engineering applications. What I do is both out of curiosity and as I do believe in the importance of interdisciplinary work.

## *Let There Be $x$ . . .*

Although I am an engineer by degree, I have been fond of mathematics since I learnt algebra back in middle school. Before that time when I was in primary school, I was not so good&mdash;perhaps even felt a bit mediocre&mdash;at mathematics. Sometimes I did not understand solutions to problems, and felt like I was lacking a mental tool, which was in fact the case when I looked back on it. Besides, our teacher using a supplementary school journal, *TUDEM*, as so-called "learning material" even exacerbated the situation for me because the journal contained quite challenging problems to solve. Maybe it was in part due to mental maturity as not everyone develops equally in physical, mental, and emotional aspects, or the instructional methods were not sufficiently pedagogical. As a result, I had an on-and-off relationship with mathematics; school was typically boring to me; and homework was nothing but a chore. That tool was algebra I was not aware of at the time. When my aunt, a former mathematics teacher, introduced me to it, it was literally an "aha" moment to me that I still recall vividly today. From then on it was a lot easier to convert problems into algebraic equations and solve them. I am quite grateful for learning to learn above all through her help. Honestly, I would say it was a nudge that put me on the right way.

## *A Growing Passion . . .*

Our high school mathematics curriculum involved the fundamentals of calculus&mdash;limit, derivative, and integration. I recall that my aunt had mentioned those names before, which only piqued my interest as a senior middle-school student. They had remained a "mystery" to me, in a sense, until later. One day, I discovered *Matematik Dünyası* journal in our school library, and that deepened my relationship with mathematics further. It is a journal that has been published in Türkiye since 1991 and is aimed at readers interested in mathematics, from high-school to university students. The issue *(No. 78, 2008-III)* of the journal that I picked up covered the concept of limit. Through the journal, I learnt about *Ali Nesin*, a Turkish mathematician who has made significant contributions to mathematics education in Türkiye through *Nesin Matematik Köyü* *("Nesin Mathematics Village")*. His description of what mathematics is, why and how he was drawn to it through his talks has brought me a fascination for it. This was how the joy of understanding and doing mathematics was instilled in me, as I found similarities in the way I regard mathematics in my life. I can hardly think of another activity that can be performed with such elegance and minimalism&mdash;only requiring pen and paper. Sometimes I even think that I should have studied mathematics at university in the first place. I even had an opportunity to do so during my undergraduate studies, but I was a bit skeptical about such a radical change, so I dismissed it and continued with my engineering degree. I decided to nurture it as a hobby. Therefore, from time to time, I read and learn about concepts from textbooks as an amateur enthusiast.

## *Today . . .*

I took up learning Python where I had left it off at university&mdash;in one semester I took a programming class. In addition, I dabbled in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and LaTeX in my spare time during the global COVID-19 pandemic&mdash;because why not. This is how I built this site from scratch on my own. I developed an interest in machine and deep learning topics at some point, becoming familiar with their respective libraries such as PyTorch, TensorFlow, and scikit-learn. I am currently learning C/C++. I have got to learn, don't I?
